In this video you're going to learn how to get insights out of your audience reports in Google Analytics.
So firstly to access them just come into the sidebar here you can click on the audience section and
let's get started by looking at the demographics overview report and the success of any business really
depends on understanding who your potential customer is.
And a key part of that is really understanding their age and gender.
So in this report we can really see a breakdown in the ages and the age ranges of our Web site visitors
and also the gender split as well.
So in this case we can see that a significant amount of the Web site visitors.
Thirty six percent and the biggest kind of age bracket is really between the ages of 25 and 34.
And also we can see that the there is a heavy split towards males and even of that age.
So what is this.
What can we do with this information.
Well we can really focus in on that particular age group on that particular gender if we wanted to grow
our business because obviously they are the most active.
And so if we can appeal to them more in our products in our content in our advertisements then we can
really grow the business quite quickly and it's great to come in here if you're thinking of advertising
on Facebook or any other platform to really put in these in this age range and gender because all of
those platforms will require you to do that if you want to get the best results.
So coming into Google Analytics and seeing this here is really invaluable information.
Now just to note that in order for you to get this age and gender information in your web site or in
your own reports you want to just enable this in you or Oddbins section.
So if we come into the admin section and we come into property settings you just need to come in and
make sure that this is enabled your demographic and interest reports and coming back into our audience
reports.
Let's come down now into the interests overview report.
This can be pretty high level stuff sometimes but it can just be interesting to get a look into the
interests of your audience.
What are some of the things that they like and this can give you some ideas about maybe some related
products that you could create or maybe businesses in related but non-competing industries that you
could start to partner up with in order to appeal to that same audience so you can see some of it is
pretty high level but even just to get a sense of who are the audience and what are their top interests
that can really help spark some ideas.
Now let's move on then to the geographic reports.
And these are often some of the most interesting reports that you can start to dig into so we can see
that English is the most popular language.
61 percent.
And so if we were creating ads or content where we can continue to do it in that language if we saw
another language where there was a significant amount of users go completions then we could maybe start
to create content to better serve that audience in their native language.
If we come down into the location report then once again we can see the top locations of our Web site
visitors for an online business you might not be too concerned with this if you're selling a digital
product.
But if you were a local business or you were a national business with retail stores then you'd really
want to see where are the cities that are hitting your Web site the most.
So you could pretty Make sure to serve those customers in that city better.
You could open up more retail locations hold events etc. where if you're an e-commerce store then you
really want to make sure that I was able for example to ship easily to India that the fees in terms
of shipping or not too expensive.
Maybe look at ways to reduce those fees if there were some in order to better serve those customers.
And again this information is just invaluable if you want to build a profile for your ideal buyer that
you can then use in advertising.
Now moving on then let us have a look at the behavior report and the new and returning visitors can
give us an insight once again into our audience people who are visiting for the first time or that are
coming back again and again.
So in this case we can see 81 percent of our visitors are new visitors so maybe there is an opportunity
to really increase the number of returning visitors.
Maybe thats by building a bigger email list and if we had a content site we could make sure that we
email them every time we released a new piece of content or maybe even an e-commerce site building that
email list again and emailing them when you have new product releases or sales in order to try and encourage
those existing customers or email subscribers to keep going back to the site living on then then we
have the technology reports and again these are extremely useful to look at and really understand what
are the devices and the browsers that are audience are coming to our side on what we want to do and
maybe a quick check here is to have a look at the buy in straits and to really look at if there were
any browsers where there were is a much higher than average percentage of bounces so we can see here
apparent Minni.
Its only 1 point to 4 percent of our total number of users but there does seem to be a little bit of
a higher bounce rate up here in Safari.
There does seem to be this is seventeen point seventy four percent of our users over the last seven
days.
And there does seem to be a much higher balance rate here so maybe thats something we could investigate
test web site on that browser to make sure that everything was working okay coming down to the mobile
report.
Then we can really see the split in terms of whether people are accessing our website on desktop mobile
or tablets.
And we can see here that there is actually quite an even split between desktop and mobile and tablets
out of those up.
Some sites are heavily geared towards desktop like online trading site like it used to be.
They have a lot of desktop users.
And so if youre asking people to link off and check this check data.
It's going to be easy for them to do.
If a lot of people were accessing a mobile that's not going to be easy to use.
So again just understanding how low your users are accessing your site can influence a lot of decisions
you make about the design of the site the content and even how you target them once again in advertising
and looking down at the benchmarks report says can be pretty interesting as well.
We can really see how our side is comparing versus the benchmark of people in our industry which we
can select here and which we will have selected when we set up our Google Analytics account so we can
have a look at it in terms of our different channels how we might be performing against the average
of people in our industry and that's based on the average of people using Google Analytics and submitting
their analytics to Google.
So that can be pretty interesting in terms of seeing how you get traffic to your site versus maybe some
competitors for example.
This is an e-commerce schottische is a shopping site.
You can see that in terms of referral traffic and organic search.
We are significantly higher than the competition and were significantly lower than the competition in
the normal channels maybe for e-commerce traffic which would be paid search or general advertising.
So that's just interesting to note.
It's it's just interesting to get their perspective on how other sites are laid eyes and maybe some
of the marketing tactics that they're using as an industry to see how that compares against how you
are you really getting those maybe similar users to arrive at your Web site so that you know how to
get some insights of these audience reports come in to your Google Analytics account and have a look
at this information and ask some of those questions that we've been asking in this video.